# kickstarter-analysis
Performing analysis on kickstarter for knowledge on trends (Module 1)

Overview of Project: The fundamentals of this project were relatively simple and straightforward. We used the basic functions of Microsoft Excel to analyze patterns and trends regarding different Kickstartar campaigns with regards to whether or not they reached their funding goals. As an existing Kickstarter data set was already available, we were able to visualize some campaign outcomes mostly revolving around the theatre category and the percentage that reached their funding goals. There is significant room for improvement however.

There were no particular difficulties other than the occassional disconnect that I found between some labels in Excel ie plays vs play category in either Pivot tables or module instructions. As with many things, some button functionality is dependent on the version of Excel being used (2016 vs 2020 and so on). I did not encounter any significant challenge when doing this; managed to finish this in around 2 hours. The only difficult part of this exercise was getting used to uploading items and assets on Github. As someone who has not used Github/Gitlab in a long time, navigating repositories takes some getting used to, especially when one is used to extremely user-friendly interface for the longest time. I have no problems with the very basic functions of Excel used in this challenge. There were some internet troubles, but nothing that could not be managed properly. 
The challenge could be made more difficult by requiring editing of graphs, perhaps even in Tableau if possible. Within the confines of basic Excel, one could include graphs based on chronological data ie different dates for opening and closure; duration and velocity of donations pouring in (real-time data?) if possible. 

A few findings: First, the peak of theater/play donations almost always seemed to be within May or June, although we are not given much context for why this is within the data itself. As to be expected, there is a much higher percentage of kickstarter campaign success (among plays at least) with smaller donations. There is decreasing marginal returns for plays with higher contribution goals, although plays themselves are never outright canceled unless they do not meet their contribution goals. For future purposes, it seems that narrowing the focus on plays especially without statistical analysis ie variance and standard deviation for plays regarding the mean goal amount; Pearson's R and other such coefficient values between variables like category and success rate; comparison among campaigns based on duration time (between opening and closing dates) as opposed to splitting them up into different categories, will certainly be of further use. As it stands, we can describe the prevalent trends for campaigns based on plays, but there is no kowledge gathered about why these trends are present, not can we really predict future trends based on this alone.
